In order to develop cold locally on your computer you'll need to install a web server which needs to
support P. H.
P. So you can run code on the server.
A database server so you can store and retrieve data and ideally you should have the p HP mapping admin
program installed which makes it much easier to administer.
The database will learn more about each one of these as we progress throughout the course.
Whatever your operating system.
There are many software packages available that will install and configure all of these for you at once.
One of the most popular is X amp samp.
This gives you the Apache Web server with P HP the Maria dbe database server and also pay HP my admen.
This is the one I recommend and the one we're going to install as a side to him being the most popular.
It's free open source works on all platforms and it's very easy to install.
Also when writing code you're going to need a code editor.
Most operating systems have an editor included for example notepad on Windows text edit on OS X G edit
and lennix and so on.
You could use these but they generally don't have many features to help you code.
A quick search reveals there are many alternatives.
Some free.
Some you have to pay far.
The one I recommend is atom.
It's free open source and has many useful features such as aalto completion and syntax highlighting.
It's also multi platform so if you move between operating systems you can keep using the same editor
without having to learn another.
Following this video there are separate videos for installing ramp and atom on Windows Mac and Linux.
So please choose the ones relevant to your operating system.
Please note that installing this software is optional although recommended also.
If you already have a web server an editor installed then you can safely skip to the next section.